---
title: "How Much Money Do YouTubers Make"
description: "Uncover the earnings potential of YouTubers in our guide. Learn about ad revenue, sponsorships, and strategies for maximizing income on the platform."
image: "images/post/how-much-youtubers-earn.jpg"
date: 2024-02-17T18:19:25+06:00
categories: ["monetizing"]
tags: ["residual income"]
type: "featured"
draft: false
---

Have you ever wondered _how much money YouTubers earn_? If you have asked yourself that question, you’re not alone. Many people wonder how much money do YouTubers make? However, you must evaluate many factors to answer this question.

To begin, the most dominant video-sharing website has affected many people in different ways. On one end, viewers have been able to educate themselves on just about any matter or subject. On the other end, influencers use YouTube’ as a source of income. In each case, the platform has benefited both parties for years.

The social giant generates over 2 billion visitors a month. This number is increasing each year. The amount of advertisers is also increasing thanks to growth and expansion. For this reason, the amount of money influencers earn continues to increase monthly.

## Factors that Impact a YouTubers Income

There are several factors that determine a publisher’s income. How many subscribers does the publisher have? How much traffic does the channel/video is generating? Publishers who have been at it for a while master methods to increase their revenue over the years. Below are 5 factors that impact a publisher’s income;

### 1. Building an Audience

Every journey begins with a single step. [Starting a YouTube channel](/blog/how-to-start-a-youtube-channel) begins with building an audience. Crafting compelling content that resonates with viewers is the cornerstone of success. From makeup tutorials to gaming streams, vlogs to educational content, diversity thrives on the platform.

The key lies not only in creating content but also in fostering a community—a tribe of loyal subscribers who resonate with the creator's voice and vision. Through consistency and authenticity, creators forge connections that transcend pixels and screens, anchoring their audience to their journey.

Video views are a key factor that determines a publisher’s income. To illustrate, let's examine two individuals: Tim and John. Both of them utilize the same monetization strategy for their YouTube channels, which is Google AdSense.

On the same upload date, Tim and John share their content. In the first month, Tim's material garners 1000 views, whereas John's content attracts 10,000 views. It's highly probable that John will earn more revenue than Tim since his footage has amassed a higher number of views.

However, there are instances where less popular videos can generate more revenue than those with higher view counts. This is achieved by diversifying monetization methods. To elaborate further, let's consider Tim and John again.

While John relies solely on Google AdSense for channel monetization, Tim employs Google AdSense, YouTube Premium, personal products, and affiliate products. Despite Tim's video accruing only 1000 views in the first month compared to John's 10,000 views, Tim stands to potentially earn more revenue because he has diversified his revenue streams and has more offerings to his audience.

### 2. Channel Subscriptions

The amount of subscriptions a channel has is the second factor that affects a publisher’s earnings. When viewers subscribe to a channel, they sign up to be notified every time the owner of the channel uploads a video, which leads to the owner getting more views on his/her channel.

One way to become a top earner is to upload material that serves value to the audience. This will enable you to gain more channel subscriptions. By gaining more subscribers, you increase the exposure to your channel.

In addition, gaining more subscribers helps build your target audience. A target audience provides you with the ability to promote products to a targeted group of people. Let’s say your channel is about losing weight. Usually, the people who have subscribed to your channel are interested in what you offer.

Last, subscribers are likely to share footage that they like. When viewers share YT clips, they might become a trending topic. Once a clip becomes a trend, it has the potential to go viral. This can lead to the clip gaining tons of exposure.

### 3. Advertisements A.K.A Google Ads

Advertisements, the ubiquitous presence on YouTube, serve as the primary source of revenue for many creators. Through Google AdSense, creators earn a share of the revenue generated by ads displayed on their videos. The earnings fluctuate based on factors like audience demographics, engagement, and ad format.

### 4. Merchandise Sales

Merchandise sales encapsulate the essence of creator-fan relationships, offering enthusiasts tangible symbols of belonging. From custom apparel to branded merchandise, creators transform passion into profit, bridging the gap between virtual and physical realms.

### 5. Exploiting Alternative Methods of Monetizing

The last factor that determines earnings is the monetizing strategies that are implemented. There are many methods that individuals can use to monetize a channel. YouTube’s top earners usually use over one method to generate revenue from their platform. Here are a few monetizing strategies that top earners use; affiliate products create a brand on Yondo, product placement, promoting a blog or website, YouTube Super Chat and Super Stickers, YT Partner Program, and YT Premium.

### Top YouTube Earners

It’s true, there are many influencers that get paid $100,0000 U.S. yearly. By the same token, popular channels are raking in millions of dollars each year! However, most publishers do not generate 5-6 figure digit paychecks. The not-so-popular influencers are earning around $100 – $1000 monthly. However, the top YouTube earners earn millions yearly.

- Jeffree Star $50 million
- Daniel Middleton $30 million
- Felix Kjellberg $30 million
- Mark Fischbach $24 million
- Evan Fong $20 million

There’s a kid among the top earners named Ryan Kaji. In 2018, Ryan Kaji was the highest-paid YouTuber, earning an estimated $22 million from his videos and Walmart product line. Ryan Kaji currently has over 20 million subscribers as of November 2019. If this child can monetize a YouTube channel, so can your child and you too!

Given these points, there is no limit to the amount of revenue that producers can gain by uploading YT clips. The sky’s the limit for earning potential, provided the publisher remains active and continues to create meaningful material.
